[docs] [essentials] - Backfills (#16630)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/backfills.mdx

# Backfills

> Backfilling is the process of running partitions for assets that either don’t exist or updating existing records. Dagster supports backfills for each partition or a subset of partitions.

Reviewer: backfill can also be for ops. so this description isn't accurate.

> After defining a [partitioned asset or job](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions), you can launch a backfill that will submit runs to fill in multiple partitions at the same time.

Reviewer: similar to my suggestion [here](https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/pull/16511#discussion_r1337808634), i wonder if we could simply say:
```suggestion
After defining a [partitions](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions), you can launch a backfill that will submit runs to fill in multiple partitions at the same time.
```

Backfills are common when setting up a pipeline for the first time. The assets you want to materialize might have historical data that needs to be materialized to get the assets up to date. Another common reason to run a backfill is when you’ve changed the logic for an asset and need to update historical data with the new logic.

---

## Launching backfills for partitioned assets

> To launch backfills for a partitioned asset, click the **Materialize** button on either the [**Asset details**](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions#materializing-partitioned-assets) or the **Global asset lineage** page. The backfill modal will display. Backfills can also be launched for a selection of differently partitioned assets as long as the roots share the same partitioning.

Reviewer 2: I know this was the wording from the original page, but I think "Backfills can also be launched for a selection of differently partitioned assets as long as the roots share the same partitioning." could be made more clear. to be honest i'm not 100% sure what it's trying to say

Author: I agree - it's definitely weird. Is this what it's trying to say?:

> Assets that have different partitions can be backfilled together if they use the same partition definition

Or

> Assets that use the same type of partitioning (ex: date) can be backfilled together

Or neither?

Reviewer 2: i think it might be if the most upstream assets in the selection all use the same partition definition. 

I think @clairelin135  might know this off the top of her head. if not i'll put together a little experiment to understand when assets can be backfilled together

Reviewer 3: > most upstream assets in the selection all use the same partition definition

Yup, this is the case.

There's a slight nuance that its the most upstream partitioned assets, but we probably don't need to mention that part

Reviewer 2: cool, thank you! with that knowledge, something like this 

"Backfills can also be launched for a selection of partitioned assets as long as the most upstream assets share the same partitioning, for example: all use a `DailyPartitionsDefinition`" 

makes more sense to me. I think we can drop the "differently partitioned" assets from "selection of differently partitioned assets" since a group of assets with the same partitioning would also follow the "the most upstream assets have to have the same partitioning" rule, and "differently partitioned" introduces one more thing to think about.

Author: Agreed - this is much better. Thanks folks!

# Backfills

Backfilling is the process of running partitions for assets or ops that either don’t exist or updating existing records. Dagster supports backfills for each partition or a subset of partitions.

After defining a [partition](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions), you can launch a backfill that will submit runs to fill in multiple partitions at the same time.

Backfills are common when setting up a pipeline for the first time. The assets you want to materialize might have historical data that needs to be materialized to get the assets up to date. Another common reason to run a backfill is when you’ve changed the logic for an asset and need to update historical data with the new logic.

---

## Launching backfills for partitioned assets

To launch backfills for a partitioned asset, click the **Materialize** button on either the [**Asset details**](/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitions#materializing-partitioned-assets) or the **Global asset lineage** page. The backfill modal will display.

> Backfills can also be launched for a selection of partitioned assets as long as the most upstream assets share the same partitioning. For example: All partitions use a `DailyPartitionsDefinition`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Backfills can also be launched for a selection of partitioned assets as long as the most upstream assets share the same partitioning. For example: All assets with no upstream assets in the selection use a `DailyPartitionsDefinition`.
```

if all assets use a DailyPartitionsDefinition, that would also be a correct example, but it's the most simple case so i think using the slightly more complicated version might help illustrate the point better? i'm not really sure it's actually that much better

height={335}
/>

### Single-run backfills

By default, if you launch a backfill that covers `N` partitions, Dagster will launch `N` separate runs, one for each partition. This works well when code is single-threaded, as it avoids overwhelming it with large amounts of data.

However, if you're using a parallel-processing engine like Spark and Snowflake, you may not need Dagster to help with parallelism. In this case, splitting the backfill into multiple runs can add extra overhead.

> Dagster supports backfills that execute as a single run that covers a range of partitions, such as executing a backfill as a single Snowflake query. After the backfill completes, Dagster will track that all the partitions have been filled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dagster supports backfills that execute as a single run that covers a range of partitions, such as executing a backfill as a single Snowflake query. After the run completes, Dagster will track that all the partitions have been filled.
```
 "backfill" or "run" are basically synonyms in this use case, but I like "run" in this case since it it reinforces that there's only one run

> To use this approach, code needs to be written in a way that allows it to operate on partition ranges and not just single partitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this approach, code needs to be written in a way that allows it to operate on a range of partitions and not just single partitions.
```

to me this is slightly more clear, but I'm not tied to making this change

If your code uses any of the `partition_key`, `asset_partition_key`, `asset_partition_key_for_output`, or `asset_partition_key_for_input` context methods or properties, you'll need to update the code to use methods or properties like the following instead:

- `asset_partitions_time_window`
- `asset_partition_key_range`
- `asset_partition_keys`
- `asset_partitions_time_window_for_output`
- `asset_partition_key_range_output`
- `asset_partitions_time_window_for_input`

> - `asset_partition_key_range_for_input`

Reviewer 2: We've improved the API docs for all of these methods to include examples, can we update these to by PyObject links, or have a link to the API docs so that readers know to look there for more examples? 

https://docs.dagster.io/_apidocs/execution#dagster.OpExecutionContext.asset_partition_key_for_input

Author: Yes!

height={335}
/>

### Launching single-run backfills using backfill policies <Experimental />

> By default, if you launch a backfill that covers `N` partitions, Dagster will launch `N` separate runs, one for each partition. This works well when code is single-threaded, as it avoids overwhelming it with large amounts of data.

Reviewer 2: on second read through, the line "This works well when code is single-threaded, as it avoids overwhelming it with large amounts of data." stands out as confusing to me. I'm also not really sure what it's trying to say

Author: I think this is from an update @sryza did recently - wanna weigh in here, Sandy?

My suggestion, though I'm not sure it's what you're going for:

> This approach can help avoid overwhelming Dagster or resources with large amounts of data.

Reviewer 4: > However, if you're using a parallel-processing engine like Spark and Snowflake, you often don't need Dagster to help with parallelism, so splitting up the backfill into multiple runs just adds extra overhead.

Is taking this sentence out intentional? I think it helps add color to this.

Author: Nope - it probably happened when I was addressing the merge conflict that came up. Happy to add it back.

Dagster supports backfills that execute as a single run that covers a range of partitions, such as executing a backfill as a single Snowflake query. After the run completes, Dagster will track that all the partitions have been filled.

To get this behavior, you need to:

- **Set the asset's `backfill_policy`** to <PyObject object="BackfillPolicy" method="single_run" />
- **Write code that operates a range of partitions** instead of just single partitions. This means that, if your code uses the `partition_key` context property, you'll need to update it to use one of the following properties instead:

  - [`partition_time_window`](/\_apidocs/execution#dagster.OpExecutionContext.partition_time_window)
  - [`partition_key_range`](/\_apidocs/execution#dagster.OpExecutionContext.partition_key_range)
  - [`partition_keys`](/\_apidocs/execution#dagster.OpExecutionContext.partition_keys)

>   Which property to use depends on whether it's most convenient for you to operate on start/end datetime objects, start/end partition keys, or a list of partition keys.

Reviewer 2: i like that this line is here!

    )
```

> Alternatively, if you are using an I/O manager to handle saving and loading data, you'll need to ensure the I/O manager is also using these methods. If you're using any of the built-in database I/O managers, like [Snowflake](/integrations/snowflake), [BigQuery](/integrations/bigquery), or [DuckDB](/\_apidocs/libraries/dagster-duckdb), you'll have this out-of-the-box.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add a note that file system I/O managers do not have these capabilities?

height={2414}
/>

---

> ## Launching backfills using the CLI

Reviewer 2: is the CLI only for backfills of jobs? if so, maybe we should specify that in the title

Author: I actually don't know if it's possible to do this bit without a job, but I'm fine with making the title more specific

Reviewer 2: yeah you're right. I still think more specific might be nice. I could see someone reading it and thinking the CLI will work for both individual assets and jobs. Alternately, just making it clear in the first part of the section would work too
